API Documentation.md, before:

# How to use hogs-api 
The hogs-api is a REST api. An API_KEY is expected in the header of your requests to get a response from any endpoint that begins with `/api/`. Requests without an API key in header will be sent `401 Unauthorized`.

Many endpoints expect a `user_id` field, as they are geared towards the Windows application. If you need to use one of these endpoints from the web, you can identify yourself as `anon` instead of providing a user_id. 

## Headers
All requests to the hogs-api must have two things in their header:

1. A self-identifier, `WHO_AM_I`, e.g. `0.2.0` *(game version)*, or `web` *(for website requests)*.

2. An API key that is kept ery-very secret.\*

For example:

```conf
WHO_AM_I=web
API_KEY=d45e6-25er8-e7833-d9877-arm44
```

**API keys may be rolling in the future.*

## Create a news post with `post("/api/news")`.

Usage: Upload a new post to the database. Send a title, author, body and (optionally) an abstract. A date one will be automatically assigned when the post is uploaded.

The abstract is _not_ a subtitle, but a short summary of the article that will be shown when browsing the newsfeed.

### Example request

```json
{
    "title": "February 2024 Development Summary",
    "author": "John Blogpostwriter",
    "abstract": "A month of backend work.",
    "body": "Lorum ipsum dolor[...]"
}
```

### Example response

```json
{
    "status": "200",
    "message": "Uploaded new post successfully",
    "_id": "id_of_new_news_post"
}
```

## Get all news posts with `get("/api/news")`.

Usage: Pull all available news posts from the database. Returns an array of news objects in json.

No body is required for the request, however a header containing `API_KEY` is still necessary.

### Example response

```json
[
    {
        "title": "February 2024 Development Summary",
        "author": "John Blogpostwriter",
        "abstract": "A month of backend work.",
        "date": "Thu Mar 07 2024 13:59:48 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)",
        "body": "Lorum ipsum dolor[...]"
    },
    {
        "title": "March 2024 Development Summary",
        "author": "John Blogpostwriter",
        "abstract": "A month of frontend work.",
        "date": "Wed Apr 06 2024 12:45:43 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)",
        "body": "Lorum ipsum dolor[...]"
    },
...
]
```

## Load a leaderboard with `get("/api/scores")`.
Usage: Download an array of scores filtered per your request. The resulting array will be in descending order sorted by points unless otherwise specified with key `sort_by`.

### Narrowers:

Narrowers are special keys which filter resulting leaderboards. You should use at least one, or else you will get a raw list of all scores in the database.

- `user_id` - When specified, the response will contain only that player's scores.
- `game_mode` - When specified, the response will only contain scores achieved in that game mode.
- `level` - When specified, the response will only contain scores from that level.

Hint: You can send `null` to any narrower and the server will ignore it entirely. This can make your client-side code easier to write, as you can use a generic object for all of your requests.

### Example request

This will return *john_highscore_getter*'s top-10 scores on *c1_victoria*. Note that we are using `user_id`, and not `friendly_name`.

```json
{
    "level": "c1_victoria",
    "user_id": "john_highscore_getter",
    "game_mode": null,
    "sort_by": "points",
    "rows": 10
}
```

### Example response

An array of score objects is returned.


```json
[
    {
        "_id": "65e0c6508154faf9951d265c",
        "user_id": "user_id_2",
        "level": "c1_victoria",
        "time": 135552,
        "points": 7456,
        "game_mode": "story",
        "game_version": "0.2.0"
    },
    {
        "_id": "65e0c6548154faf9951d2664",
        "user_id": "user_id_2",
        "level": "c1_victoria",
        "time": 117228,
        "points": 8492,
        "game_mode": "story",
        "game_version": "0.2.0"
    },
...
]
```

## Verify, edit, or create a user with `post("api/user")`.

Usage:

To verify a user exists, to create a new user, or to update a user's friendly name.

Application sends a user_id to login and friendly name if they want to submit a new one.

Friendly name MUST be provided if new_user is "true". Otherwise, the server will assign a random name.

`user_id` must be a unique 17-digit number. It is expected to be a steam ID, but could theoretically be anything.

`user_id` should be kept private!

### Example request 

```json
    {
        "user_id": "user_id_of_player_making_request",
        "new_user": "false",
        "friendly_name": "john_fortnite",
    }
```

### Example response

```json
    {
        "status": "200",
        "message": "User exists and friendly name is unchanged."
    }
```

### Other responses

* 200: User exists and friendly name is unchanged.
* 201: New user was created with friendly name <friendly_name>.
* 203: New user was created with automatically-generated friendly name <friendly_name>.
* 400: Bad request. Could not parse request.
* 400: Bad request. Invalid user_id

## Submit a new score with `post("api/score")`.

Usage: Submit a new score to the database when a level has been completed

### Example request 

```json
{
    "user_id": "user_id_of_score_getter",
    "level": "c1_victoria",
    "time": 240000,
    "points": 5020,
    "game_mode": "story",
    "game_version": "0.2.0"
}
```

### Example response

An `_id` is automatically assigned to the score and returned in the response.

```json
{
    "status": "200",
    "_id": "65e0980c111551dc08eb258c",
    "message": "Submitted a new score."
}
```

Commit message:

Add 100 response limit to leaderboard endpoint (if larger amount not specified)

API Documentation.md, after:

# How to use hogs-api 
The hogs-api is a REST api. An API_KEY is expected in the header of your requests to get a response from any endpoint that begins with `/api/`. Requests without an API key in header will be sent `401 Unauthorized`.

Many endpoints expect a `user_id` field, as they are geared towards the Windows application. If you need to use one of these endpoints from the web, you can identify yourself as `anon` instead of providing a user_id. 

## Headers
All requests to the hogs-api must have two things in their header:

1. A self-identifier, `WHO_AM_I`, e.g. `0.2.0` *(game version)*, or `web` *(for website requests)*.

2. An API key that is kept ery-very secret.\*

For example:

```conf
WHO_AM_I=web
API_KEY=d45e6-25er8-e7833-d9877-arm44
```

**API keys may be rolling in the future.*

## Create a news post with `post("/news/create")`.

Usage: Upload a new post to the database. Send a title, author, body and (optionally) an abstract. A date will be automatically assigned when the post is uploaded.

The abstract is _not_ a subtitle, but a short summary of the article that will be shown when browsing the newsfeed.

### Example request

```json
{
    "title": "February 2024 Development Summary",
    "author": "John Blogpostwriter",
    "abstract": "A month of backend work.",
    "body": "Lorum ipsum dolor[...]"
}
```

### Example response

```json
{
    "status": "200",
    "message": "Uploaded new post successfully",
    "_id": "id_of_new_news_post"
}
```

## Get all news posts with `post("/news/all")`.

Usage: Pull all available news posts from the database. Returns an array of news objects in json.

No body is required for the request, however a header containing `API_KEY` is still necessary.

### Example response

```json
[
    {
        "title": "February 2024 Development Summary",
        "author": "John Blogpostwriter",
        "abstract": "A month of backend work.",
        "date": "Thu Mar 07 2024 13:59:48 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)",
        "body": "Lorum ipsum dolor[...]"
    },
    {
        "title": "March 2024 Development Summary",
        "author": "John Blogpostwriter",
        "abstract": "A month of frontend work.",
        "date": "Wed Apr 06 2024 12:45:43 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)",
        "body": "Lorum ipsum dolor[...]"
    },
...
]
```

## Load a leaderboard with `get("/api/scores")`.
Usage: Download an array of scores filtered per your request. The resulting array will be in descending order sorted by points unless otherwise specified with key `sort_by`. Specify `rows: x` in the body of your request to limit the number of responses you get from the server. By default you will be limited to 100, but you can override this by specifying a higher number in your body.

### Narrowers:

Narrowers are special keys which filter resulting leaderboards. You should use at least one, or else you will get a raw list of all scores in the database.

- `user_id` - When specified, the response will contain only that player's scores.
- `game_mode` - When specified, the response will only contain scores achieved in that game mode.
- `level` - When specified, the response will only contain scores from that level.

Hint: You can send `null` to any narrower and the server will ignore it entirely. This can make your client-side code easier to write, as you can use a generic object for all of your requests.

### Example request

This will return *john_highscore_getter*'s top-10 scores on *c1_victoria*. Note that we are using `user_id`, and not `friendly_name`.

```json
{
    "level": "c1_victoria",
    "user_id": "john_highscore_getter",
    "game_mode": null,
    "sort_by": "points",
    "rows": 10
}
```

### Example response

An array of score objects is returned.


```json
[
    {
        "_id": "65e0c6508154faf9951d265c",
        "user_id": "user_id_2",
        "level": "c1_victoria",
        "time": 135552,
        "points": 7456,
        "game_mode": "story",
        "game_version": "0.2.0"
    },
    {
        "_id": "65e0c6548154faf9951d2664",
        "user_id": "user_id_2",
        "level": "c1_victoria",
        "time": 117228,
        "points": 8492,
        "game_mode": "story",
        "game_version": "0.2.0"
    },
...
]
```

## Verify, edit, or create a user with `post("api/user")`.

Usage:

To verify a user exists, to create a new user, or to update a user's friendly name.

Application sends a user_id to login and friendly name if they want to submit a new one.

Friendly name MUST be provided if new_user is "true". Otherwise, the server will assign a random name.

`user_id` must be a unique 17-digit number. It is expected to be a steam ID, but could theoretically be anything.

`user_id` should be kept private!

### Example request 

```json
    {
        "user_id": "user_id_of_player_making_request",
        "new_user": "false",
        "friendly_name": "john_fortnite",
    }
```

### Example response

```json
    {
        "status": "200",
        "message": "User exists and friendly name is unchanged."
    }
```

### Other responses

* 200: User exists and friendly name is unchanged.
* 201: New user was created with friendly name <friendly_name>.
* 203: New user was created with automatically-generated friendly name <friendly_name>.
* 400: Bad request. Could not parse request.
* 400: Bad request. Invalid user_id

## Submit a new score with `post("api/score")`.

Usage: Submit a new score to the database when a level has been completed

### Example request 

```json
{
    "user_id": "user_id_of_score_getter",
    "level": "c1_victoria",
    "time": 240000,
    "points": 5020,
    "game_mode": "story",
    "game_version": "0.2.0"
}
```

### Example response

An `_id` is automatically assigned to the score and returned in the response.

```json
{
    "status": "200",
    "_id": "65e0980c111551dc08eb258c",
    "message": "Submitted a new score."
}
```
